Metrics API — Introduce a `/metrics` route for observability / monitoring purposes (#174)
meilisearch/specifications: text/0174-metrics-api.md

# Metrics API

> This endpoint is currently in beta.

Author: ```suggestion
This endpoint is currently experimental.
```

> This means that it can break at any time between two minor versions as long as it is not stabilized.

Author: ```suggestion
This means it can break between two minor versions at any time as long as it is not stabilized. It also means it could be removed and never be stabilized.
```

```

#### 3.2.5. `meilisearch_index_count`

Returns the total number of index for the Meilisearch instance.

```
# HELP meilisearch_index_count Meilisearch Index Count
# TYPE meilisearch_index_count gauge
meilisearch_index_count :numberOfIndex
````

### 3.3. API Endpoints Definition

#### 3.3.1. `GET` - `/metrics`

Fetch the metrics of the Meilisearch instance.

`200` - Response body example

```
# HELP meilisearch_database_size MeiliSearch Stats DbSize
# TYPE meilisearch_database_size gauge
meilisearch_database_size 1097728
# HELP meilisearch_docs_count MeiliSearch Stats Docs Count
# TYPE meilisearch_docs_count gauge
meilisearch_docs_count{index="movies"} 807
meilisearch_docs_count{index="movies_2"} 0
# HELP meilisearch_total_index MeiliSearch Stats Index Count
# TYPE meilisearch_total_index gauge
meilisearch_total_index 2
```

#### 3.3.2. Errors

- 🔴 If `--experimental-enable-metrics` CLI option / `MEILI_EXPERIMENTAL_ENABLE_METRICS` env var is not specified at launch, the API returns a `404 Not Found` HTTP response.

##### 3.3.2.1 Auth Errors

If a master key is used to secure a Meilisearch instance, the auth layer returns the following errors:

> - 🔴 Accessing these routes without the `Authorization` header returns a [missing_authorization_header](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_authorization_header) error.
> - 🔴 Accessing these routes with a key that does not have the permission `metrics.get` (i.e. other than the master key) returns an [invalid_api_key](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_api_key) error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🔴 Accessing this route without the `Authorization` header returns a [missing_authorization_header](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#missing_authorization_header) error.
- 🔴 Accessing this route with a key that does not have the permission `metrics.get` (i.e. other than the master key) returns an [invalid_api_key](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_api_key) error.
- 🔴 Accessing this route with a key that have a restriction on the indexes returns an [invalid_api_key](0061-error-format-and-definitions.md#invalid_api_key) error.
```
